hey everyone
so today I'm gonna continue working with
Rich widgets like the ones from Dev
extreme library and today I want to
validate this phone input number widget
and if we inspect the markup we can see
a couple of interesting things
notice that the actual number is inside
this hidden input with the name mobile
what you see on the page is not this
input because this one is hidden instead
you see this input that's a text box
that's where the number is actually
formatted having plus one you know in
parenthesis and spaces
so why don't we try to check it from a
Cypress test
now
I'm already visiting the page so I don't
control the initial phone number but we
want to check that initially the input
has a 10 digit number
so I'm going to go back to my test and
I'm gonna find the input with name
mobile
and I know it should have
wrap value I don't know the value though
if I don't have a value and I use should
have prop value then it heals the string
value of that input so I can continue
validating it so I can say that string
should match and now I can say
it's a 10 digit number so starts and
ends and nothing else
and now I can see that that's the 10
digit number no spaces no extra
punctuation no pluses no parenthesis no
dashes excellent now I want to actually
change it well we know that
a markup
if we find this hidden mobile input then
if we go to its parent then we can drop
down and find viral text box element
now we already have the actual prop
value so we have to grab the element
again
go to its parent
and then find the input with our role
text box
we can clear it and we can type
let's say one two three four five six
seven eight nine so a 10 digit phone
number
okay let's play it again and you can see
that we cleared and the text box
actually formatted the number correctly
it did not lose any digits I did not add
any extra digits excellent
and let's
remove a focus by using side blur
command because then
fire removal Focus that's when it says
the input
but we can validate
again
so now we know the actual phone number
right that's wherever we typed we can
use a variable or you can just put the
value I don't think it makes the test
any less maintainable long term okay so
we know the value of a hidden input what
about the formatted text
again
let's find the text box
and now we can say should
have
value and now the formatted text just
like shown here
perfect so we just validated the hidden
input that has just the number with no
formatting and we validated that the
input text box with the user actually
enters the number displays the formatted
phone number correctly